Izanami, I would love to tell
you the case of Dr.24 and what we're
going to do is go linking it to
Lean Startup.
Let us start by telling you a little about
the context from which this comes.
Because Dr.24 is a clear case of
building a product that then at
the time of truth nobody wanted.
Dr.24 was an intra-entrepreneurial
I did within a pharmaceutical company
and something that at first
seemed fantastic to me of having
a lot of resources, not having
that component of uncertainty
that I had had in previous projects
that was pure entrepreneurship,
without a safety
mattress.
A salary and so on, right?
I had a salary, a salary and all that.
I didn't believe it, 14 payments.
In the life of an entrepreneur
it is like what at first
seemed to me to be a brutal
advantage.
Then in the long run I think I put
a fee at the end to the project because
one of the good and bad things
about startups is that uncertainty.
That uncertainty that makes you
start hard and very tired and
need a lot of resilience,
but at the same time awaken creativity
and gives you a hunger that
is the cause of the success
of many projects.
And we did not have that.
Also, another thing to consider
when you build a project is to
align the interests of
all the people who are within
the project, whether your
investors.
Many people say no, it's because
you don't like to have bosses.
I don't know if I prefer to have bosses and investors.
In the end you have to align the interests
of a lot of people and in this case
the interests of the pharmaceutical
company, because they wanted to have
a product and wanted to have
it quickly.
So, a little because of that and
a little because of the arrogance
with which you reach a new market
you say, we are super digital,
super techies, we will disrupt
the health sector with
our app.
There is a saying that makes a lot
of harm that is that if Henry Ford
had asked people what they
wanted, they would have said
faster horses.
That phrase is very good to land,
but at the same time it can spole you
to fall in love with your idea and what
all this translated into.
We spent almost a year
building a real work
of art.
That was an app for video consultations
between doctors and patients
that we made with a RTC web
that we built internally
from scratch.
We had a development crack team.
I had never had such a team
with such good people.
We are creating a real work of
art.
You had money, you had support,
you had stability, we had money
insured for a long time,
which is something that in a startup
you usually have money for
six months.
You are on the counter-clock all the time.
We had a dream team.
I looked at my team and said, what are
you doing here that you are not in
Silicon Valley?
Authentic crackers, ready people,
we developed an authentic artwork at
a technical level, but when we
went out to sell this artwork to the
sector, we started to sit down with
the customers and they told us,
yeah, yes, it is phenomenal, but
consultations with doctors can not
be scheduled.
It's not like we've made a type
of Uber.
We need to be able to make
consultations.
You sat with an insurance company,
with a hospital, and they told
you, but can you choose a specialty?
Oysters you know?
And we started doing all that
validation process of what the
market wanted.
Once, we had spent a year and
a lot of money building something
that was very well
built, but that didn't solve
anyone's problem at all.
We are analyzing it.
This is a book case, of
Lean Startup, and we can
relate it to the tips
that Lean Startup gives us.
You built the whole product,
say, complete, and with all
the functionalities, very
expensive, etc., from a hypothesis
that you have made
in your head.
That is, in the office, without
validating it in the market,
without talking to customers, when
you spent, I understand, a lot
of money, a large equipment for
a year, you delayed the exit to the
market, that what it does
is delay that learning you
had afterwards, that
directly transmitted to you what
they needed, and it was not what
you had done.
So it's really true that you
made the mistakes that Lean Startup
clearly tells us we don't
have to do.
and totally.
And it was like you say a book thing,
because then, when we already had the
product created and we started to
see that in addition each customer asked
us different things, you said,
hear, because we are going to change it,
but of course, you are going to change
it and there are three, four months
more for a contract that you don't know
if you're going to close and we
go back to what we talked about in
the previous class of lack of focus.
Hear what do we do?
Are we focused on doing something,
doing it well, or are we running
behind the needs of all these siren
songs of potential customers
to build something
for them?
So we didn't have a clear business
model, didn't we?
From the beginning.
No clear business model, and above
all what you didn't have was method,
because if during that year, the
first two weeks, you had done a demo,
that there are tools,
that anyone can even do it, without
knowing a demo of an application,
it would have cost you 15 days
of a uncle, imagine, and
you would have sat down with all
the potential customers,
all that learning you would have
had from the first day, would
have allowed you to build
a product that was closer,
at least closer to what the
customer wants, and if during
that path you would have
forced them, say, to
make a...
So, try to make a real sale,
right?
So, well, is that what
you like?
Well, then sign the contract, commit
yourself, etc., then, are you really
validating that there is a real
interest on the part of the
customer?
Here is one thing we will see in
a class later, in more detail,
but it is the law of the
10 bills, and he asks you what
is, hear, bring me 10 bills,
not 10 real bills, but a bill at
the end gives you a lot of information,
gives you the names and surnames
of the type of customer you
go to, and goes on, what
will you charge him, how
will you pay him to then calculate
the cash flow?
We started developing a product
without having clear those bills,
right?
Neither how much it would cost, nor
to whom we would sell it
later, nor what kind of payment
it would be, if it would be a subscription
model, if we would pay it once,
if we would pay for implementation,
we didn't have a clear business
model, and what we did was start
building a little for love of art
in the sense of just as a painter
spends his hours painting for
the beautiful things that are
left to the painting, I think
we came in a moment, in such
a moment of falling in love
with our idea that we already
did things to do something
very beautiful and very
well done.
If I had to summarize it in one of
Lean Startup keys I would say,
what you did wrong is that
you said, of course, that what
you had in your head was what
customers wanted.
So, from that idea, you built
a great product, as you
said, wonderful or something
like that, didn't you?
But it was wonderful in your
head, but then I feel that it
wasn't what customers wanted.
Another mistake we made, which,
in addition, another thing that spole
us to get to this mistake, was that
in the United States there were
people with identical products
to which we were building and was
going phenomenal to them.
And we made the mistake
of extrapolating, which is also
a very common mistake of, hear, if
this is working in the United
States, why won't it work in
Spain?
And there is no why.
It is true that to a certain extent
it is valid that it is being done
in other markets and is working, you
are validating it, you hear, because
this market is beginning to move,
this sector, but in the times, the
markets are very different and in
our case, in addition, that
we were in the health sector, the
barriers of entry and the peculiarities
of each sector are brutal.
Then we came to a sector, the health
sector in Spain, which is super different
from that of the United States,
in which a product we knew was
identical to what was being
done in the United States,
therefore, did not find place.
Well, Aleja, as long as there is
some uncertainty, something, because
here there was, there was less, because
in the United States it was happening,
but it turned out that the client
here did not want it, as long as
there is some uncertainty,
say, that uses the philosophy
the Instarta for rajatabla,
which will save you a lot
of problems.
And when you talk about that, of internationalization,
I am remembering that the owner
Evita Antel told me that when they went
to the United States, he opened,
I don't know if one, several clinics
in Manhattan and so on, he copied
the model that works here,
took it there, here he was going phenomenal,
then he had many problems, but
he was going very well, and he
had to palm, I don't know, tens
of millions of dollars, but for
something that was very easy
to anticipate, you know?
That private insurance there
works differently, etc., right?
But that doesn't have because,
effectively, whenever there is risk,
validate it first.
Valid it and get rid of your idea no matter
how difficult it is.